this
is a keyboard no wait that's not true
this is a keyboard well i guess that's
not true either but
what's beautiful about this
and this is that you can plug them into
your computer and have it act as a
keyboard
or as a mouse or as a macro pad or
whatever you want
you see the chip on this which is a
arduino pro micro clone
also works with the arduino leonardo and
associated clones um is a mega 32u4
instead of having a chip that sort of
does the translation between this chip
and your computer
the 32u4
has that built right in the silicon in
here
so i'm going to show you how to make
your own keyboard or macro pad or
whatever i mean
this is kind of a macro pad
and it's a lot easier than you think
so first things first uh this is how
it's hooked up
so pin two three four five and six
um just along this side here but there
are more digital pins you can use and
even analog pins but that's for a
different video
um all they are is they are connected to
one side of a switch the other side of
the switch connected to ground so as you
can see here a little bit of a mess
but this is the ground wire here and
here's the individual um wires for the
pins
next we have to bring you over to the
computer and i'll show you just how easy
it is to turn this
into a keyboard
so here is the code and in fact i will
show you the source where i got this
code
momentarily but first let me just go
over it it's actually super simple so
first things you just include the
keyboard and
mouse.h libraries
simple as that
there are no libraries to download this
is all default in arduino
ide i have 1.8.19 at the moment
but pretty much any future one will have
this as well
then all i'm doing is declaring pin a b
c d and e
in my case it's the far left all the way
to the far right
and pins two three four five and six you
actually don't have to declare them as
variables but this makes it easy if you
have a long sketch you can just go and
change
this number if you change the physical
pin on your project
then in the setup we are making our
pins input pull-ups that means we're
using an internal resistor to pull up to
5 volts so the pin
2 3 4 5 and 6 will constantly be reading
high unless we short it to ground and
don't forget that's how we connected the
buttons next
in the void loop
i have a couple examples here of how to
use this library
so firstly
if
pin a is low
then
we can send a character so a character
you go keyboard dot write and then
single quotes and the character you want
to send and that's literally going to
send a capital a because that is what it
does whatever is between these single
quotes the character it will send
i put a 500 millisecond delay because if
you don't it's going to repeat the
command so you know 500 millisecond is
just kind of enough to like press and
remove your finger but if you keep your
finger down it'll keep sending a
next if pin b is low then we'll send a
keyboard dot print command dot print
lets you send a string so double quotes
and then whatever you type in here will
be sent
through the arduino for pin c
i have the print ln
command keyboard dot print ln and that's
the same thing as keyboard.print
with the double quotes except it will
send a return after
so you'll have your type your it'll
you'll type something and then it will
give you a new line after
for pin d
we're using the mouse library so mouse
dot press and mouse dot release so press
will press and hold until you release
make sure you release whatever you press
so here i have the right click
and then a 100 millisecond delay and
then the right click will release
and finally for pin e
it'll be
print line
again
and just subscribe to simple electronics
you know for
simple things like this and the beauty
is the arduino is already plugged in so
if you just go to notepad here
pressing switch a
there we go sending an a character
i'm going to press enter press switch b
so you press switch b i'm going to press
enter
press switch c
you have pr press switch c but you see
we're already we have the return already
included
and then switch
d
it right clicks
pretty neat
and then pin e
subscribe to simple electronics and i
can just hold that down and every 500
milliseconds
it'll spam it
it's probably going to spam it until
you've subscribed so you know get going
as for where you can find all these
commands um i will link you to this page
and i'll probably make a write up on my
website eventually so you'll find that
link down there too eventually
but sparkfun has a great article
how to
do a hid keyboard however this article
is old it's uh 10 years old at the time
of this recording
so maybe back then you didn't have to
include the two libraries
the keyboard and mouse.h
but today you do have to do that
so it shows you all of the keyboard
commands right and the character
so like z for example uh print and the
string
um
you know with the the double quotes and
then the print ln is to print a line
and then they give you a project to do
with these keypads
so this thing makes an easy macro
keyboard which is pretty neat
and then the hid mouse so left right and
middle click and all three mouse buttons
but as well you can move the x and the y
and the wheels so you can actually move
along the screen move the cursor along
the screen which is pretty neat
and then non-ascii characters it's a
little bit more complex but
not too too bad
and so yeah with just this website and a
little bit of time
you'll be able to turn your pro micro
into a keyboard and or mouse
let me know if you're interested in more
videos where i cover the mouse and or
keyboard usage with a pro micro like do
you want me to build these kinds of
projects let me know in the comments
below
thanks for watching